You'll often hear people talk about applications in terms of a
tiered or an n tier architecture or layers.
We try to build our applications and tiers more now in enterprise languages,
and there are great reasons to do so.
A few of these are separation of concerns.
This just means that each layer is only concerned with
the task that it's assigned to do.
Our presentation layer is only going to have presentation type things in it,
and our business logic is going to be contained in a layer,
and data access is going to also be contained in its own separate layer.
Now there's another term called reusable layers that sounds
very similar to separation of concerns, and in some ways it is,
but its focus is different.
If I have business logic in my presentation tier,
I can't easily change my presentation tier or expose a web service,
for example,
without recreating some of that logic if I have extracted it into its own
appropriate tier that I'm not duplicating that logic.
If you ever notice yourself copying and pasting code in your application,
it's probably not architected in the correct manner.
Now,
that's a little bit of a difference between the
separation of concerns and the reusable layer.
Separation of concerns is not about reuse,
it's just about having things in the right layer so that I can
rearchitect them later where reusable layers means that I have a
purpose and a point that I'm trying to drive.
I can expose the same data in multiple ways without having to worry about it,
or I can replace my presentation tier without having to
rearchitect my entire application.
And another term is maintenance, or refactoring might be a better way to put it.
That's the ability to change things without having those
changes ripple through all of our code.
For example,
if I have Hibernate in my application and I have to change something
in my UI based off of a change I made in Hibernate,
then it probably isn't architected correctly.
If done correctly, we can change our code and not have to retest everything,
but rather just the pieces that we changed.
This leads into a much larger discussion about unit testing,
but that's outside the focus of this course.
Since we're talking about layers or tiers of a Spring MVC application, and
this is important because of how we annotate our components,
which we're going to actually talk about here next,
let's first talk about the data model that we would access using
something like Hibernate or JDBC or Spring JDBC,
and this layer represents the data or model of our application.
Next,
we have a controller that interprets the user's requests and selects
the appropriate view based off of what we've requested or what
information we got back from our data model.
And then we have our view. For our case, we're going to be using
for our model just simple JSPs, but we could also use FreeMarker,
Velocity or Web Services to just simply return data back from our
requesting controller.
Now,
one thing that's often misunderstood by people is that Spring MVC
has nothing to do with regards to our database,
but it has a model associated with it.
So, is this model talking about our database or the model talking about
what the framework is going to represent to our JSP page?
It's actually referring to the view, what we're going to
represent to our JSP or our web service,
but we always have to get that information for somewhere.
So, that's where our various components come in and what we're going to talk about next.